the Luangwa River has one of the largest
concentrations of hippo anywhere in the
world during the heat of the day
hippo stay not as close to the river but
in it as water levels drop in the dry
season it becomes harder for them to
find pools deep enough to submerging
their sensitive skin needs protection
from the Sun so any deep channel in the
river is a coveted territory and hippo
will fight to maintain them
hippo live in pots mostly made up of
females and calves with a few submissive
males and a dominant bull
[Music]
as space diminishes the bull hippos
begin to fight for the right to stay in
the deep river channels
[Music]
there are estimated to be over 40 hippos
per kilometer of river all of them now
squash together uncomfortably close they
spend most of the day in water not just
to protect their skin but to conserve
energy especially now when food is so
scarce
as the drought continues things are only
going to get worse for the hippo here
cameraman mic holding explains they will
end up clustered together in a very
tight mud hole we've seen cases before
the mud hole just drying and drying and
drying the hippos actually can't get out
they get stuck in the mud and they die
there so that's worst-case scenario it's
quite interesting hippos are like social
schizophrenic and as soon as they're out
of the water at night when they go to
feed they're become solitary animals
it's quite weird I don't know anything
else that does that now they don't
tolerate each other out there either you
won't see two adult hippos walking and
grazing together they fan out across the
landscape when they go grazing and yet
they're happy to tolerate all being
stuck in this muddy pond they're not
eating here they're eating back behind
the river and if you go out there it's
like a moonscape there really isn't a
blade of grass so you'll see all these
hippo trails going out to the south of
here and the hippos are following them
every night but where they're feeding is
a mystery
you